Rebuildable system & appliance (#263462)
NixOS/nixpkgs: nixos/doc/manual/development/non-switchable-systems.section.md

# Non Switchable Systems {#sec-non-switchable-system}

In certain systems, most notably image based appliances, updates are handled

> outside the system. This means that you do not need to re-build your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
outside the system. This means that you do not need to rebuild your
```
for consistency with ~everything else

configuration on the system itself anymore.

If you want to build such a system, you can use the `image-based-appliance`
profile:

```nix
{ modulesPath, ... }: {
  imports = [ "${modulesPath}/profiles/image-based-appliance.nix" ]
}
```

The most notable deviation of this profile from a standard NixOS system is that
it disables your system from re-building itself. It sets
`config.system.switch.enable = false;`, which excludes
`switch-to-configuration`, the central script called by `nixos-rebuild`, from
your system. Removing this script makes the image lighter and slightly more

> secure.

Reviewer: This feels like an odd claim -- it doesn't prevent switching to another system, only from switching _to_ the system with this option enabled. Copying a "rebuildable" system into the Nix store on the machine in question, then running its switch-to-configuration, would still work as far as I understand...

Author: You're right of course. Changed the wording slightly. Should be more accurate now.

# Non Switchable Systems {#sec-non-switchable-system}

In certain systems most notably image based appliances, updates are handled
outside the system. This means that you do not need to re-build your
configuration on the system itself anymore.

If you want to build such a system, you can exclude all the tools for
re-building from your system by setting `config.system.switch.enable = false;`.

> Removing these tools makes the image lighter and slightly more secure.

Reviewer 2: What about the profile?
